---
layout: "../layouts/BlogPost.astro"
title: "TIL"
slug: today-i-learned
description: ""
added: ""
top: true
order: 1
---

1. **major.minor.patch** version (also known as **breaking.feature.fix**): `^` instructs npm to install the newest version of the package with the same major version; Use `~` to have both the major and minor version match.
2. `__dirname` and `__filename`: running `node example.js` from `/Users/mjr`, **__dirname** is `/Users/mjr` and **__filename** is `/Users/mjr/example.js`. **`__dirname`** returns the directory name of the directory containing the JavaScript source code file, while **`process.cwd()`** returns the current working directory in which you invoked the `node` command. However `__dirname` can't be used in ESM projects. The equivalent way is to use something like `fileURLToPath(new URL('.', import.meta.url))`, which ensures a cross-platform valid absolute path string. (`import.meta.dirname` and `import.meta.filename` are available in Node v20.11.0 LTS.)
3. `path.resolve()` and `path.join()`: **path.resolve** creates absoulte path from right to left until an absolute path is constructed, whereas **path.join** simply concatenates every parameter from left to right whether they have `/` or not. TypeError is thrown if any of the arguments is not a string.
   - `path.resolve('/a', '/b', 'c')` returns: `/b/c`
   - `path.join('/a', '/b', 'c')` returns: `/a/b/c`
   - `path.join('/foo', 'bar', 'baz/asdf', 'quux', '..')` returns: `/foo/bar/baz/asdf`
4. Quickly browse the history of a file in the repo: Go to a file in GitHub (or GitLab, or Bitbucket), replace `github.com` with `github.githistory.xyz` (i.e. https://github.githistory.xyz/kexiZeroing/FE-Learning-notes/blob/master/README.md)
5. One second to read GitHub code with VS Code online. Just add 1s after github (`github1s.com`) in browser address bar for any repository you want to read. Another one, open a GitHub repo, press `.`, then VS Code opens up in your browser. You can also change `github.com` to `github.dev` in the URL in order to achieve the same effect.
6. Type `Cmd + K` to open the GitHub command palette to quickly navigate, search projects and try other commands. There is a related React component [cmdk](https://github.com/pacocoursey/cmdk).
7. `Cmd + Shift + .` toggles hidden files in Mac.
8.  After `Cmd + h` to hide the window, there is no shortcut to bring the window back, **because the app loses focus when hidden**. The easiest way to do is using task switcher `Cmd + Tab` to display it normally.
9.  Open VSCode in terminal: `Cmd + Shift + P` -> type **Shell Command: Install 'code' command in PATH** -> restart the terminal for the new `$PATH` value to take effect, and type `code .` to open VS Code. (`open .` to open the Finder)
10. Open `settings.json` file in VSCode: `Cmd + Shift + P`, type "open settings" and you can choose Open User Settings (JSON). Another way is `Cmd + ,` to open Settings UI and there is a button on the top-right corner which can be used to switch between JSON and graphical view.
11. Use "Organize Imports" in VS Code to remove unused imports. Run it via the command palette or add this to `settings.json` to run automatically on save. In addition, you can use up and down keys in the search box to access your search history. Use `Ctrl + G` to navigate to a specific line. Also, `Cmd + X` to delete a line, `Cmd + L` to select a line, `Opt + Up/Down` to move a line.
12. Drag the file tab from VS Code into the terminal to get the absolute path for that file.
13. Browser notepad: `data:text/html,<html contenteditable>`. The world smallest [office suite](https://github.com/zserge/awfice) is worth to check out.
14. Ever struggled with some forgotten processes taking over a port you're trying to use? Just run `npx kill-port [port-number]`. In addition, `fkill` is an awesome CLI tool that lets you kill hanging processes `npx fkill`. Check more at [kill-port](https://github.com/tiaanduplessis/kill-port) and [fkill-cli](https://github.com/sindresorhus/fkill-cli).
15. Type `env` or `printenv` in the terminal to list all the default environment variables. The `env` command can run other commands with modified environments. If no command is given, `env` prints environment variables. `printenv` can only print environment variables and cannot run commands.
16. Install [tldr-pages](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr) `npm install -g tldr` which simplify the `man pages` with practical examples, e.g. try to run `tldr tar` or `tldr git branch`.
17. [m-cli](https://github.com/rgcr/m-cli) is a macOS command line tool (Swiss Army Knife for macOS) that lets you interact with utilities and applications entirely in Terminal. Run `m` to display all the available commands.
18. Short link `react.new`, `vue.new`, `ng.new`, `js.new`, `csb.new` to create a new codeSandbox project. [Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com/) is another similar platform and might be the most exciting in-browser IDE (try `vite.new`, `remix.new`, `node.new`). All code execution in StackBlitz happens within the browser security sandbox and cannot break out to your local machine. (not on remote VMs or local binaries)
19. Use `if (typeof window === 'undefined')` to execute code only in the server-side. We can’t do it using `if (window === undefined)` because we’d get a “window is not defined” runtime error.
20. `du` command is used to display disk usage statistics. It calculate and print the disk space used by files or directories. `-a` option means display an entry for each file; `-s` will summarize and show only the total size of the directory; `-h` for human-readable output. In the case of a file, `ls` shows the actual size of the file (when you open and read it, that's how many bytes you will get), while `du` shows the space on the disk occupied by the file.
21. You can set the parameters of the function passed to setInterval and setTimeout by specifying extra arguments in the call, e.g. `setTimeout(console.log, 1000, 'hello');`
22. Scroll the window to a particular place in the document, `window.scroll({top: 100, left: 100, behavior: 'smooth'});` or setting in CSS `html { scroll-behavior: smooth; }`
23. Conditionally add a member to an object: `const item = {... true && {bar: 'bar'}, ... false && {falsy: 'falsy'}};`, and the item will be `{bar: "bar"}`
24. A **daemon** is a background, non-interactive program. It is detached from the keyboard and display of any interactive user. The word daemon for denoting a background program is from the Unix culture.
25. If you want to distinguish `zsh` script files, then you can change the script’s file extension from `.sh` to `.zsh`. But **the file extension will have no effect on which interpreter will be used to run the script. That is determined by the shebang**, the extension only provides a visible clue in the Finder or Terminal.
26. [GNU](https://www.gnu.org/home.en.html) (GNU's Not Unix, it is pronounced *g'noo*, as one syllable, like saying "grew" but replacing the *r* with *n*) is a collection of programs which help to create a fully functional operating system. GNU's goal was to create a fully free, open source replacement of Unix. **Linux functions as an operating system kernel but the Linux kernel alone does not form a working operating system**. When Linux was created, there were many GNU components already created but GNU lacked a kernel, so Linux was used with GNU components to create a complete operating system. We prefer to use the term **"GNU/Linux"** to refer to systems that many people casually refer to as “Linux”.
27. All shells originate from the Bourne Shell, called `sh`. **Bash** means Bourne Again SHell. `sh` was proprietary and not open source, but Bash is created as a free alternative for the GNU project. It offers functional improvements over `sh` for both programming and interactive use.
28. **Terminal** in the software sense can take input and pass it on. It's good at displaying textual output, but the Terminal doesn't actually process your input. Technically **Console** is a device (has screen and keyboard) and Terminal is the software program inside the Console. In the software world a Terminal and a Console are synonymous. A **shell** is the program that the Terminal sends user's input to. The shell generates output and passes it back to the Terminal for display. Your choice of shell doesn't and shouldn't dictate your choice of terminal application. (**Shell**: bash, fish, zsh, PowerShell, cmd; **Console/Terminal**: Hyper, cmder, MinTTY, Windows Terminal, VSCode includes a Terminal).
29. A local **shell variable** can be declared using `=` sign (should not be any spaces between a variable's name, `=` and its value) and its value can be retrieved using the `$` sign. Because using `$` to identify variables, you need to escape it if you want to remove a file whose name contains a `$` , like `rm -r \$RECYCLE.BIN`.
30. In Bash scripts, positional parameter `$0` is the script's name, and `$1 … $9` are parameter list elements from 1 to 9. If you execute `./script.sh Hello World`, it will make `$0 = ./script.sh`, `$1 = Hello`, `$2 = World`. And `$#` means the number of positional parameters of your script, which is typically used to ensure a parameter is passed.
31. Using `exit` and a number is a handy way of signalling the outcome of your script. Non-zero exit indicates an error (`exit 1`). Zero indicates success (`exit 0`). `$?` returns the exit value of the last executed command.
32. By defualt, bash will continue after errors. To exit the script as soon as one of the commands failed, add `set -e` at the beginning.
33. The javascript `void` operator evaluates the given expression and then returns undefined. It is **often used merely to obtain the undefined primitive value**, usually using `void(0)` (which is equivalent to `void 0`). Arrow functions with a short-hand braceless syntax will return an expression. This can cause unintended side effects by returning the result of a function that previously returned nothing. To be safe, when the return value is not intended to be used, it can be passed to the `void` operator.
34. [Browser sync](https://browsersync.io/docs/command-line) local server: `npx browser-sync start --server --files "."`. It watches all files in the current folder (and all subfolders) for changes and launches a web server on port 3000. Any time you change a file, the browser will refresh. Run `browser-sync start --help` for more information.
35. [http-server](https://github.com/http-party/http-server) is a simple static HTTP server. Serving defaults to `./public` if the folder exists, and `./` otherwise. `index.html` will be served as the default file to any directory requests. You can also configure the Port, CORS, Cache, HTTPS, Proxy (proxies all requests which can't be resolved locally to the given url), etc.
36. Use [JSON Placeholder](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/), [DummyJSON](https://dummyjson.com) or [JSON Server](https://github.com/typicode/json-server) to get a full fake REST API when a quick back-end is needed for prototyping and mocking.
37. [httpstat.us](https://httpstat.us) is a super simple service for generating different HTTP codes. It can be used to get proper headers for each error type. Just add the status code you want to the URL like https://httpstat.us/500
38. **GitHub pages** is a free way to host projects. It has two types of pages: User pages or Project pages. User pages is for hosting a personal website or a portfolio. You can only have one user page attached to your GitHub account and the URL will be `yourusername.github.io`. Project pages is used to host a project and you can create multiple project pages per account. Github uses `gh-pages` branch to get files to build and publish from. The URL for this page will be `yourusername.github.io/projectname`.
39. Just-in-Time (JIT) vs Ahead-of-Time (AOT) compilation in Angular: **JIT compiler** runs on client side in the browser. It performs a lot of work to analyze application’s directives and components at runtime and generate code in memory. When the page is refreshed, all the work that has been done is thrown away, and the JIT compiler does the work all over again. **AOT compiler** runs on server sidee at build time (in other words, before the actual execution of the code). The browser downloads a pre-compiled version of the application. The browser loads executable code so it can render the application faster. We also don't ship `@angular/compiler` code in our production bundle anymore.
40. With an interpreter, the "translation" happens pretty much line-by-line, on the fly. But the con of using an interpreter comes when you’re running the same code more than once. JavaScript started out slow (using interpreter, i.e., if you’re in a loop, you have to do the same translation over and over again), but then got faster thanks to **JIT**. It makes JavaScript run faster by monitoring the code as it’s running it and sending hot code paths to be optimized. If the same lines of code are run a lot, the JIT will send it off to be compiled and store that compilation.
41. **CSS scroll snap** can create a scrollable container with well-controlled scrolling experience. First, using the `overflow` with a value other than `visible` for the scrolling container. Then we need to add `scroll-snap-type: x mandatory` to the container and add `scroll-snap-align: start` to the child items. The `x` value represents horizontal scrolling, and the `mandatory` means that the browser must snap to each scroll point. The child items need an alignment point that they can snap to. We can imagine there is a magnet on the scrolling container at `start`, `center` or `end`.
42. Babel compiles JSX `<div>Hi</div>` to a function call `React.createElement('div', null, 'hi')`. If you have a comment like `/** @jsx cool */`, Babel will transpile the JSX using the function `cool` you defined instead of `React.createElement`, so you can have a function `const cool = (el, props, ...children) => {}`, which could be totally not related to React.
43. Ever tried debugging an element (e.g. input dropdown) that keeps disappearing when it loses focus once you start using devtools? `Cmd + Shift + P`, then type "Emulate a focused page". Another way to freeze UI, open up the devtools source panel and use `Cmd + \` to pause script execution. Run `setTimeout(() => { debugger } , 2000)` is also a good solution. (Note that here `debugger` is a statement rather than an expression, so we need wrap it in a function.)
44. Take screenshots using devtools: `Cmd + Shift + P`, then type "screenshots". You can choose an area screenshot (drag to select), a full website screenshot, an HTML node screenshot (need to select an element first) or a current viewport screenshot.
45. Hacks for playing html video: `$0` to get the element you inspected, and if it's a `<video>`, change playback speed `$0.playbackRate = 2` or show picture-in-picture mode `$0.requestPictureInPicture()`.
46. You could type `document.designMode = 'on'` in devtools console to make your whole website editable, which great to test different texts.
47. In devtools console, you can use `$` and `$$` as shortcuts for `document.querySelector()` and `document.querySelectorAll()` respectively (`$$` returns a true array instead of an array-like NodeList). For example, you can use `console.table($$('img').filter(i => !i.alt), ['src'])` to have the list of image URLs that don't have an alternative text. Furthermore, `$0` gives you the reference to the currently selected element. `$1` is the previously selected element. That goes all the way to `$4`. Use `$_` to get the result of the last evaluated expression in the console. What's more, `getEventListeners($0)` returns the event listeners registered on the specified object.
48. **`copy(anything)` is a handy utility in the console that allows you to put anything into the system clipboard**. Furthermore, If you have `debug(function)` in the console, when the specified function is called, the debugger is invoked and breaks inside the function on the Sources panel.
49. At the top right hand side of "Sources" tab, there is a button 'Deactivate breakpoints' - `Cmd + F8` to stop the browser from going into debug mode (the execution won't stop). Another option is to right-click the line next to the debugger statement and select "Never pause here". It is especially useful when you try to inspect websites not under your control that left breakpoints in the source code, that might have been done intentionally to prevent you from doing inspection.
50. When you delete files, the data is not initially removed from the hard disk. Instead, the space on the disk that was occupied by the deleted data is deallocated. After it is deallocated, the space is available for use when new data is written to the disk. Until the space is overwritten, you can recover the deleted data by using a low-level disk editor or data-recovery software.
51. The `<a>` tag has the `ping` attribute, which specifies a URL that will be called when the link is clicked. The URL would get a POST message with the content "PING" (literally) and the `ping-to` request header holds the link's destination, which can be used for tracking purposes and providing stats and information about how the visitors used the site.
52. Why I don't need to clean up my downloads folder in macOS? There's the `/tmp` directory (symlinking to `/private/tmp`). This directory is used for temporary operating system files, and it's automatically cleaned up after you reboot your machine. I configure the browser to store downloads by default in `/private/tmp`.
53. `process.argv` (full form is `argument vector`) returns an array containing the command-line arguments passed when the Node.js process was launched. The first element will be the 'node', the second element will be the name of the js file. The next elements will be any additional command line arguments.
54. [Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/apps/aspnet/web-apps/blazor) is an experimental web UI framework based on C#, Razor, and HTML that runs in the browser via WebAssembly. It is based on existing web technologies like HTML and CSS, but use C# and Razor syntax instead of JavaScript to build composable web UI. The Blazor repo is a fully open source project and has moved to the ASP.NET Core repo. Read details at https://blog.stevensanderson.com/2018/02/06/blazor-intro and here is a [demo](https://blazor-demo.github.io)
55. If you open so many tabs, I just discovered that Chrome offers a UI (chrome://discards) to discard tabs (put them to sleep) to free up system resources.
56. When you create a new app using `npx create-react-app`, the CLI will use Yarn to install dependencies (that's why you can see `yarn.lock`). If you have Yarn installed, but would prefer to use npm, you can append `--use-npm` to the creation command.
57. Either with `window.open()` or by navigating a link with a target attribute, if `noreferrer` is set, the browser will omit the Referer header, as well as set `noopener` to true. `noopener` means the new window will not have access to the originating window via `window.opener` and returns `null`. **All major browsers (i.e. Chrome 88) implicitly set `rel="noopener"` for any `target="_blank"` link by default.** (This has been the case in every browser for 3+ years.)
58. Shell executes command in the simplified version of steps: prints the prompt and waits for input -> splits this line of command into tokens -> checks if the first token is aliased -> checks if the command is builtin -> searchs in the `PATH` env if the command is not builtin (`ls` is found in `/bin/ls`) -> creates a new process to execute it by using system call. If you are curious to know where the program is stored, `which` command will help you to identify the path and add `-a` option (`which -a ls`) to display all the paths for that specified command.
59. `file` command is used to determine the file type/encoding (`file xyz.txt` or `file *`), but note that it reads only part of the file and takes a best guess with the help of a magic file that contains all the patterns to recognize a file type. `iconv` command is used to convert text **from** the encoding given for the `-f` option **to** the encoding given for the `-t` option. `iconv -l` lists the names of the supported encodings in a system dependent format.
60. `Ctrl-C` sends a kill signal to the foreground application. **`Ctrl-D` sends an EOF character**. On Unix-like systems, an end-of-file condition is triggered by typing `Ctrl-D` at the beginning of a line or by typing `Ctrl-D` twice if not at the beginning of a line. In the latter case, the last line you read will not have a `\n` at the end of it.
61. `dig` command (Domain Information Groper, replacement for `nslookup`) is used to gather DNS information. Type `dig xxx.com` to perform a DNS lookup. The most important section is the ANSWER section which displays the IP address associated with the domain name. By default `dig` requests the A record and uses the local configuration listed in `/etc/resolv.conf` to decide which name server to query. To specify a name server against which the query will be executed, use `dig xxx.com @8.8.8.8`. To find the alias domain name, use the `cname` option `dig xxx.com cname`.
62. All DNS records actually end with the period character (.) which represents the root of the DNS hierarchy, but it's rarely printed and is usually just assumed. A domain name that includes the trailing period character is said to be a fully-qualified (unambiguous) DNS domain name.
63. `whois` command to find out information about a domain, such as the owner of the domain, the owner’s contact information, and the nameservers that the domain is using. `openssl s_client -connect servername:443` would be used (https uses port 443) to connect to an SSL HTTP server, maybe for checking certificate validity.
64. Type `ssh foo@example.com` to connect a remote server and we can add public/private keys for password-less login. A more elegant way is to create a ssh config file `~/.ssh/config` with a `Host xyz` section (also set `HostName`, `Port`, `User`, `IdentityFile` under this section), then simply type `ssh xyz` to connect and the options will be read from the ssh config file.
65. A **landing page** (people arrive at after clicking on a link in an email or an ad from a search engine) is a standalone web page designed to increase the conversion rates of marketing campaigns, so the primary goal is to keep users there until they convert. A **splash page** (appear while a game or program is launching) covers up the site before entering and have more animations, videos, and eye-catching elements. It has an exit link that redirects visitors to the main/home page.
66. **ORM** is Object Relational Mapping, basically a technique that lets you query and manipulate data from a database using an object-oriented paradigm. With the help of ORM, you don’t actually need to use SQL at all. You can directly interact with the database and perform queries in the same language you are using for your back-end code. **ODM** is Object Document Mapping. It is like an ORM for non-relational databases. Mongoose is a good example for ODM for MongoDB.
67. Node `process.platform` returns a string identifying the operating system platform on which the Node.js process is running: `darwin`, `linux`, `win32`. Darwin is the part of OS X that is the actual operating system, which forms the core set of components upon which Mac OS X and iOS are based. To give an analogy, Darwin would be the equivalent of Linux while Mac OS X would be the equivalent of Ubuntu or another distribution.
68. `btoa()` *"binary to ASCII"* method creates a Base64-encoded ASCII string from a binary string (a String object in which each character is treated as a byte of binary data). `atob()` *"ASCII to binary"* decodes a string of data which has been encoded using Base64 encoding. `atob()` throws error if encodedData is not valid base64. Note that base64 are commonly used when there is a need to encode binary data that needs to be stored and transferred over media that are designed to deal with ASCII.
69. Pause script execution when the DOM changes which is useful if you don't know the codebase you are debugging: Navigate to the Elements panel -> Find the node which you want to add the breakpoint on -> Right click and check the `Break on` sub menu -> Choose the type of breakpoint (subtree modification, attribute modification, node removal)
70. If you want to hide resources loaded by browser extensions in the Network panel, type `-scheme:chrome-extension` in the filter input box (putting a `-` in front means to negate the search, or use the invert checkbox next to it). *Chrome 117 has a new filter called "Hide extension URLs" that does the same thing*. Similarly use `status-code:404` to find all requests that ended up in a 404 error.
71. A 32 bit IPv4 address is an A record. The AAAA record is similar to the A record, but it allows you to specify the IPv6 address of the server. IPv6 is four times the size – 128 bits – so it ended up being a quad-A record. You can use `dig` to determine the AAAA record associated with a domain name `dig AAAA example.com`.
72. **Media Source Extensions** provides functionality enabling plugin-free web-based streaming media. Using MSE, media streams can be created via JavaScript. MediaSource is an object representing the video’s data, and we're not adding a link to the video (mp4 file), we're adding a link to the MediaSource object. Older versions of the Media Source specification required using `URL.createObjectURL()` to create an object URL then setting `src` to that URL. Now you can just set `srcObject` to the MediaStream directly.
73. Zero Width Joiner (ZWJ, pronounced "zwidge") is a Unicode character that joins two or more other characters together in sequence to create a new emoji. This is an invisible character when used alone and the code point is `U+200D`. When a ZWJ is placed between two emoji characters, it can result in a single glyph being shown, such as the family emoji 👨‍👨‍👦 👨‍👩‍👧‍👦, made up of two adult emoji and one or two child emoji.
74. A software license is a legal instrument spelling out what can and can’t be done with software. MIT is probably the one you’ve seen the most and is one of the most permissive licenses you can place on software. It pretty much says that you can do anything you want with the software without any issues, the only thing asked of you is to include a copy of the original copyright and license notice with every copy of the software. A lot of famous software use this license such as Node.js, Vuejs, Ruby on Rails. The ISC license (comes default with `npm init`) is essentially the same as MIT but without the clauses that would be considered extraneous.
75. Every test you write will include selectors for elements. Targeting a element by tag, class or id is very volatile and highly subject to change. Instead, adding `data-test`, `data-testid`, or `data-cy` (using Cypress) attribute to the element gives us a targeted selector that's only used for testing, which isolate them from CSS or JS changes.
76. End-to-End tests are the set of tests that are the closest to what the user should experience when using your product. At the end of August 2023 Protractor will officially have reached the end of long term support and will transition to End of Life in September 2023. Protractor has been a popular e2e testing tool for Angular apps. However, Protractor is no longer included in new Angular projects as of Angular 12. Check out [Migrating from Protractor to Cypress](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/end-to-end-testing/protractor-to-cypress).
77. Hold the `Ctrl` or `Cmd` key when click on the resource type to filter multiple resource types (e.g. CSS + Font + Image) in Devtools Network panel.
78. You can type `cal 2022` or `cal june 2022` in Terminal and get the calendar right in your Terminal.
79. Difference between **404 Not Found** and **405 Method Not Allowed**: 404 means the server has not found anything matching the Request-URI, which is commonly used when the server does not wish to reveal exactly why the request has been refused, or when no other response is applicable. 405 means the method specified in the Request-Line is not allowed for the resource identified by the Request-URI. The response must include an `Allow` header containing a list of valid methods for the requested resource.
80. On Mac you can check the clipboard to see what’s stored there by opening Finder and then choosing `Edit > Show Clipboard`. (Mac clipboard is only designed to hold one item at a time.)
81. `clear` command or `Ctrl + L` to clear the terminal is implemented within Bash/Zsh. It's part of the shell environment. Certain terminal applications also implement their own shortcuts, like `Cmd + K`, and these application-level shortcuts can work even while the shell is busy (say you're running a dev server).
82. Use `cmd-shift-4` and then press the spacebar to screenshot the whole application window. To exclude the window's shadow from the screenshot, press and hold the `Option` key while you click. If you see a thumbnail in the corner of your screen, click it to edit the screenshot.
83. Mac by default uses PNG as the format for screenshots, and the size of some screenshots is huge. Run the command `defaults write com.apple.screencapture type jpg`, followed by `killall SystemUIServer`. This will make the screenshots use JPG for the format, which will be much more lightweight.
84. `<input type="file" capture="user" accept="image/*">` has an attribute to open the camera of mobile devices to capture images. This is done with the `capture` attribute which can take two values: `user` for the front camera and `environment` for the back camera.
85. For video tags `<video poster="picture.png"></video>` with the `poster` attribute, you can create an image which is displayed while the video is downloading, or until the user hits the play button. If this is not included, the first frame of the video will be used instead. Note that if you have a `<video>` with no `poster` attribute, you don't see a thumb on iOS. Trick! If you put `#t=0.001` at the end of the `src`, it will. Caveat here is that it then downloads extra Byte Ranges of data from the video, so it costs bandwidth.
86. The [Screen Wake Lock API](https://mikevdv.dev/blog/2022-06-23-stop-the-screen-going-to-sleep-with-javascript) allows us to stop the device screen from going to sleep without hacky workarounds that are likely to drain the battery of the device. There are plenty of use cases for keeping a screen on, including reading an ebook, map navigation, following a recipe, presenting to an audience. Wake Lock only works on active tabs/windows, and it can also be released manually via code at any point.
87. Install `es6-string-html` from vscode extensions, and simply insert the comment `/*html*/` before the string to enable syntax highlighting in es6 multiline strings.
88. Use [favicon.io](https://favicon.io) to quickly generate your favicon from text, image, or emoji. The word favicon is short for "favorite icon" and originates from Internet Explorer’s "Favorites" feature which most modern browsers call "bookmarks". The most common favicon formats are ICO, PNG, and SVG.
89. The most efficient way to store JSON in the URL’s query string is to use [JSONCrush](https://github.com/KilledByAPixel/JSONCrush), so they can be shared and bookmarked easily. If used in a url you must call `encodeURIComponent()` to escape any special characters.
90. There is no better way to craft multi-line terminal commands than Composer in iTerm2. `Cmd + Shift + .` to open a Composer, and type some multi-line command, then `Shift + Return` to execute.
91. In order to increase the buffer history in iTerm2, there is an option “unlimited scrollback buffer” which you can find under *Preferences > Profiles > Terminal* or you can just pump up number of lines that you want to have in history in the same place.
92. The `tree` program is available in Unix, as well as DOS and Windows. You can get the `tree` command on macOS using `brew install tree`. Parameter `-f` to print with the full path prefix for each sub-directory and file, `-p` prints the file type and permissions, `-s` prints the size of each file in bytes (`-h` for a human-readable format), `-D` with the date of the last modification time.
93. `Math.trunc()` function returns the integer part of a number by removing any fractional digits. Unlike `Math.floor()` or `Math.ceil()`, it truncates (cuts off) the dot and the digits to the right of it, no matter whether the argument is a positive or negative number.
94. CR and LF are control characters and used to mark a line break in a text file. Unix systems like Linux and macOS use `LF`, the line feed character (`0x0A`, `\n`), which moves the cursor down to the next line without returning to the beginning of the line. Windows, on the other hand, uses `CRLF`, carriage return AND line feed character (`0x0D 0x0A`, `\r\n`). It moves the cursor both down to the next line and to the beginning of that line.
95. `wc` command is used to find out number of lines, word count, byte and characters count in the files specified in the file arguments. `wc -l <filename>` tells it to count lines. `wc -w <filename>` tells the number of words in each input file. `ls | wc -l` counts the number of files in a directory (please note that `ls` does `ls -1`, one entry per line, if the output is a pipe.)
96. [cloc](https://github.com/AlDanial/cloc) parses your code file to counts the lines of code in many programming languages.
97. A slug is the unique identifying part of a web address that explains the page's content, typically at the end of the URL. A good slug is short, descriptive, lower-case, has no ambiguous or hard to read-at-a-glance characters, and is unique.
98. In Q3 of 2021, Chrome started to shorten the release cycle and ship a new version to the stable channel every four weeks, down from the six-week cycle. Chrome 94 was the first release on the four-week schedule. And side-by-side installation of the different channels of Chrome is available on all platforms, allowing developers to more easily test their site across multiple versions of Chrome.
99. Frontmatter is a way to identify metadata in Markdown files, and is denoted by the triple dashes at the start and end of the block. Metadata can literally be anything you want it to be, but often it's used for data elements your page needs and you don't want to show directly.
100. A page session lasts as long as the browser is open, and **survives over page reloads and restores** (same page/tab and same origin). Opening multiple tabs/windows with the same URL creates `sessionStorage` for each tab/window.
101. Users can enable a setting in their devices to indicate to websites that they prefer reduced data usage, for example, opt into data savings on the Android version of Chrome (or use the Data Saver extension on desktop device). Then every request that Chrome sends to a server will contain a `Save-Data` header with a value of `on`. You can detect this in your server-side code and send a different response.
102. The `<mark>` HTML element represents text which is marked or highlighted. It even comes with <mark>built-in styles</mark>. This might be used, for example, to indicate the words that matched a search operation.
103. Project [Fugu](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/how-fugu-is-my-browser-and-how-fugu-is-the-web) is a cross company effort to close gaps in the web's capabilities, enabling new classes of applications to run on the web. More concretely, this means adding new APIs to browsers that app developers can use to enable previously impossible use cases.
104. `say` command converts input text to audible speech. Use `say -v '?'` to obtain a list of voices installed in the system. `man say` to see more usages.
105. Both SHA256 and MD5 are hashing algorithms. They take your input data and output a 256/128-bit number. This number is a checksum. There is no encryption taking place because an infinite number of inputs can result in the same hash value, although in reality collisions are rare. Hashing is different from encryption. Whereas encryption is a two step process used to first encrypt and then decrypt a message (two-way), hashing condenses a message into an irreversible fixed-length value (one-way). By the way, encoding and encryption are also different. Encoding transforms data into another format using a scheme that is publicly available so that it can easily be reversed.
106. You can encode any text data by using base64 in command line. Run `echo hello | base64` to encode and `echo aGVsbG8K | base64 -d` to decode. `base64 sample.txt > encoded.txt` will encode the content of the input file and save the encoded text into another file, and run `base64 -d encoded.txt` to decode.
107. Node.js(v16.0.0, v14.18.0) starts to support a `node:` protocol for built-in modules. It’s immediately clear that a built-in module is imported and there is no risk of a module in `node_modules` overriding the built-in module.
108. `crypto.randomUUID()` is a method built into the browser (it's not a third-party package) that returns a randomly generated, 36 character long v4 UUID. It's available in Node.js 14.17+ and [all major browsers](https://caniuse.com/mdn-api_crypto_randomuuid).
109. [Xterm.js](https://github.com/xtermjs/xterm.js) is a front-end component that lets applications bring fully-featured terminals to their users in the browser. It's used by popular projects such as VS Code and Hyper. Note that Xterm.js is not a terminal application.
110. The advent of WebAssembly made it possible to write a WebAssembly-based operating system to run Node.js, entirely inside your browser. Stackblitz's [@webcontainer/api](https://webcontainers.io) is a browser-based runtime for executing Node.js applications and operating system commands. These environments are not running on remote servers. Together with Xterm.js, you can quickly build a working terminal inside the browser. The [tutorial](https://webcontainers.io/tutorial/6-connect-a-terminal) shows how to hook up your terminal to the shell running in the WebContainer process.
111. Instead of looking at the same boring blue folder icons, you can select any of your [favorite images](https://una.github.io/gradient-folders/) to turn it into your folder icon on Mac. Right-click on the folder you want to customize and select "Get Info", click on the folder image at the top left corner of the folder info panel, then `Cmd + V` to paste the image you copied.
112. [Lerp](https://rachsmith.com/lerp/) is the nickname for Linear Interpolation between two points. Given you have a current position for an object, and a position you want to move - you can linearly interpolate to a percentage of the distance between those points, and update the position by that amount on each frame. By doing this, the amount the object moves becomes smaller as the distance between position and target decreases. This means the object will slow down as it gets closer to its target, creating a nice easing effect.
113. The difference between `performance.now()` and `Date.now()` is that `Date.now()` returns a timestamp in relation to the Unix epoch. JavaScript gets the time from the system clock. But since the system clock lives in our machine, it can be adjusted manually or programmatically, therefore, time precision cannot be guaranteed. In this situation, `performance.now()` is more reliable. It depends neither on a specific point in history nor on our system because it returns the number of milliseconds that have passed since the beginning of the document’s lifetime (the time when navigation has started in window contexts, or the time when the worker is run in Worker contexts). Btw, `performance.timeOrigin` is considered to be the beginning of the current document's lifetime.
114. For a long time, REST was the one and only "standard" for building APIs. But in recent years, new alternatives have emerged. In 2015, Facebook released GraphQL to the public, and in 2016 Google followed suit with the release of [gRPC](https://grpc.io). In gRPC, a client application can directly call a method on a server application on a different machine as if it were a local object, making it easier for you to create distributed applications and services. gRPC has advantages in server-to-server communications. By default, gRPC uses [Protocol Buffers](https://protobuf.dev), Google’s mature open source mechanism for serializing structured data.
115. gRPC explicitely needs HTTP/2 support, and as gRPC requires code generation, only a set of programming languages are supported. It is currently impossible to implement the HTTP/2 gRPC spec in the browser, as there is simply no browser API with enough fine-grained control over the requests. For example, there is no way to force the use of HTTP/2, and even if there was, raw HTTP/2 frames are inaccessible in browsers. As a workaround, [gRPC-Web](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/PROTOCOL-WEB.md) is a slight variation of the gRPC protocol to provide a JS client library that lets you access gRPC services built in this manner from browsers.
116. Chrome provides an option to view the Web Vitals for the current page as an overlay. You can enable the overlay via the DevTools Command Menu. Press `Cmd + Shift + P`, type `web vitals overlay`, and press Enter. Then you'll then see the LCP, FID, and CLS for the page.
117. The DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA) team has identified [four key metrics](https://github.com/dora-team/fourkeys) that indicate the performance of software delivery. Key metrics include: **Deployment frequency** (how frequently an organization releases new software), **Lead time for changes** (the time taken from when a change is requested or initiated to when it is deployed), **Mean time to recovery** (the average time it takes to recover from a failure), **Change failure rate** (the percentage of changes that result in a failure).
118. Browsers doesn't natively support the displaying of WebVTT text tracks that are associated with an `<audio>` element; They all completely ignore any `<track>` content. [One possible solution](https://www.iandevlin.com/blog/2015/12/html5/webvtt-and-audio) could be to use a `<video>` element to play our audio. Yep, the `<video>` element will also accept audio files in its `<source>` elements.
119. When you deploy a new version of your SPA, users with a tab open will keep using the old SPA code. A solution is that specify the app version in each HTTP call from the UI via a `x-app-version` header, then validate this header on the API server. If `x-app-version` doesn't match the server's version, return an HTTP 400. When the UI receives a 400 status code, tell the user to reload.
120. Though there are various ways to install Python, the one I would suggest for use in data science is the Anaconda distribution, which works similarly whether you use Windows, Linux, or Mac. The Anaconda distribution comes in two flavors: [Miniconda](http://conda.pydata.org/miniconda.html) gives you the Python interpreter itself, along with a command-line tool called `conda` which operates as a cross-platform package manager geared toward Python packages. [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com) includes both Python and `conda`, and additionally bundles a suite of other pre-installed packages geared toward scientific computing. Any of the packages included with Anaconda can also be installed manually on top of Miniconda.
121. When entering text, press `Option + Shift + K` to insert an Apple logo. In a scroll view, use the Up/Down keys to scroll in small increments. Hold `Option` to scroll in larger increments, and hold `Command` to scroll to the beginning or end.
122. `system_profiler` is a macOS-specific command-line utility. `system_profiler SPHardwareDataType` prints an overview of the hardware of the current machine, including its model name and serial number. `system_profiler SPSoftwareDataType` prints an overview of the software of the current machine, including the exact macOS version number.
123. [PowerShell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/overview) is a cross-platform task automation solution made up of a command-line shell, a scripting language, and a configuration management framework. PowerShell runs on Windows, Linux, and macOS. PowerShell commands follow a Verb-Noun semantic with a set of parameters. For example, `Get-Process` will display all the running processes on your system. If you are new to PowerShell and would like to learn more, we recommend reviewing the [getting started](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/tree/master/docs/learning-powershell) documentation.
124. [It seems weird to me that Prettier will turn `<br>` into `<br />`](https://jakearchibald.com/2023/against-self-closing-tags-in-html/). In early 2000s, XHTML 1.0 became a recommendation, and proposed writing HTML in a way that was compatible with both existing HTML parsers and XML parsers (at that time there was no HTML parsing spec, on the other hand, XML has a fully defined parser, e.g. attributes require values, tags have to explicitly close). But, one of the great things about browsers is they're error-tolerant. Note that in HTML, it isn't the `/>` that closes the br, it's the "br". It's part of a special list of elements that can never have children, and therefore they self-close. `<div />` doesn't self-close, because "div" isn't on that list. HTML5 entered the scene in 2008, and one of the major things it introduced was a parsing spec, which detailed what browsers should do when they encounter weird and invalid markup.
125. The *chrome://predictors* page shows some cool stats about the characters you've typed in the omnibox and the URLs you've selected. For example, if you usually type "y", Chrome autocompletes the URL to *youtube.com* and you press Enter, you'll find this association in the table. There are 3 values: hit count (how often you type those characters), miss count (how often you pick a different suggestion) and confidence score equals `hit_count / (hit_count + miss_count)`. Green entries have a 1 confidence score, which means that the text is always associated with the URL.
126. Note that there are other browsers available on iOS like Chrome and Firefox, but due to Apple’s App Store rules every browser in the App Store is simply a UI wrapper around the Safari rendering engine and JavaScript engine *(Apps that browse the web must use the appropriate WebKit framework and WebKit JavaScript.)*. If a bug exists on iOS Safari, it also exists in iOS Chrome, iOS Firefox, etc.
127. WeChat QR Code scanner is a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based library to detect and decode QR codes. It was developed and contributed by the WeChat Computer Vision team, and integrated into OpenCV with the release 4.5.2 in the opencv-contrib package. [qr-scanner-wechat](https://github.com/antfu/qr-scanner-wechat) is a scanner for JavaScript, based on a WebAssembly build of OpenCV and WeChat QR Code Scanner.
128. Sometimes a bad guy may trigger your endpoints over and over again. A common way to reduce the impact and likelihood of this is to rate limit requests. This means that you only allow a certain number of requests from a given IP address within a certain time period. The most popular and well maintained library for express is [express-rate-limit](https://github.com/express-rate-limit/express-rate-limit). One challenge with rate limiting in a production environment is if you have multiple instances of your application running behind a load balancer. In this case, you need to ensure that the rate limit is applied across all instances and not just to each individual instance. `express-rate-limit` allows you to do this by using a shared storage mechanism (a redis store).
129. The `unload` event will be gradually deprecated starting from Chrome 117. This event is extremely unreliable. In most browsers, especially on mobile, the code often won't run and it has a negative impact on a site's performance, by preventing the usage of bfcache. The best event to use to signal the end of a user's session is the `visibilitychange` event. In browsers that don't support `visibilitychange` the next-best alternative is the `pagehide` event.
130. [UnJs](https://github.com/unjs) is a library all about universal JavaScript (zero dependency, work in node and browser and you can use anywhere). It's created out of Nuxt, creating utilities that we were using internally, but we didn't want them to be Nuxt only. [Nitro](https://nitro.unjs.io), from the UnJS ecosystem, is an intuitive framework to create type-safe and performant universal web servers, with zero-config compatibility with multiple platforms. NuxtJS is built upon Nitro, which is built upon [H3](https://h3.unjs.io).
131. Open Graph (OG) is a standard allowing developers to specify an image and other metadata to be displayed when sharing links on the web through platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Slack, and even text messages. To assist with generating dynamic OG images, you can use the [@vercel/og](https://vercel.com/docs/functions/edge-functions/og-image-generation) library to compute and generate social card images using Vercel Edge Functions.
132. [monaco-editor](https://github.com/microsoft/monaco-editor) is a browser based code editor that powers VS Code, but it's an overkill for websites that only need to show read-only codeblocks. [monaco-vue](https://github.com/imguolao/monaco-vue) enables you to use monaco-editor loaded from CDN in Vue 2&3.
133. `JSX.Element` and `React.ReactElement` are functionally the same type. They can be used interchangeably. They represent the thing that a JSX expression creates. They can't be used to represent all the things that React can render, like strings and numbers. For that, use `React.ReactNode`. In everyday use, you should use `React.ReactNode`. You rarely need to use the more specific type of `JSX.Element`.
134. If there are three `setCount(count + 1)` in a click event handler in React, it will only increment the `count` by 1, despite the three calls. React state updates are async and batched so it will re-render only once. All three `setCounts` are looking at the state of count on the same loop, so all of them see that count is 0 and all of them change it to 1. You're just setting it to 1 three times. If it was `setCount(c => c + 1)` then the result is 3.
135. A lot of browser functionalities, like DOM manipulations (`DOMParser`), are not available natively in NodeJS because that is not a typical server task to access the DOM - you'll have to use an external library to do that. You can use [jsdom](https://github.com/jsdom/jsdom) or [cheerio](https://cheerio.js.org).
136. The form `submit()` method does not trigger input validation, and there won't be a submit event. This is where `requestSubmit()` is useful. It acts exactly like a trigger on a submit button. The form's content is validated, and the form is submitted only if validation succeeds. It also can be canceled via `event.preventDefault` in a submit event handler.
137. A `.gitkeep` file is a special file that you can use to add empty directories to a Git repository. Git does not track empty directories by default. People who want to track empty directories in Git have created the convention of putting files called `.gitkeep` in these directories. `.gitkeep` is just a placeholder. The file could be called anything; Git assigns no special significance to this name.
138. [envinfo](https://github.com/tabrindle/envinfo) generates a report of the common details needed when troubleshooting software issues, such as your operating system, binary versions, browsers, installed languages, and more. It can be used as a CLI tool or as a programmatic library.
139. The file type can be specified by the server with a `Content-Type` header. `application/octet-stream` is the most generic type, and it tells the browser that the file is just arbitrary data - at which point the only thing the browser can do is download it. When a `Content-Type` is not specified by the server, the browser can perform what is known as sniffing to try to guess the type by reading the file and looking for patterns.
140. Browsers send an `accept-encoding` HTTP header when requesting text files, like `Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br`. That tells the server that it understands data compressed in either Gzip, Deflate, or Brotli. Gzip has been around since 1992 and is very widely supported. However, the Brotli algorithm that was released in 2013 built by Google provides better compression and should be used whenever possible. Note that Gzip or Brotli don't help when transferring images. That's because image formats already contain compression algorithms that are optimized specifically for images.
141. Facebook’s [zStandard](https://facebook.github.io/zstd) compression is another promising new method which aims to serve smaller payloads compared to gzip while also being faster. zStandard was added to the HTTP content encodings with an identifier of “zstd”, and support for it was added to Chrome in version 123. When considering a compression level, it’s important to balance the time it takes to compress a payload with the estimated byte savings. For example, utilizing the maximum compression level will often produce the smallest payload, but will do so at a higher computational cost.
142. A `robots.txt` file tells search engine crawlers which URLs the crawler can access on your site. It consists rules to block or allow access for a specific crawler to a specified file path on the domain where the robots.txt file is hosted. Maintaining a [robots.txt](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/crawling-indexing/robots/create-robots-txt) file will also help protect your website from unwanted AI agent access, like [GPTBot](https://darkvisitors.com/agents/gptbot).
143. The first 8 bytes of a PNG datastream always contain the following hexadecimal values: `89 50 4E 47 0D 0A 1A 0A`. This signature indicates that the remainder of the datastream contains a single PNG image, consisting of a series of chunks beginning with an `IHDR` chunk and ending with an `IEND` chunk. (Each chunk has a length, type, data, and checksum.) [PNG Chunk Explorer](https://evanhahn.gitlab.io/png-explorer/) is a tool to interactively learn about PNG files.
144. `localStorage` is usually limited to 5MB. [lz-string](https://pieroxy.net/blog/pages/lz-string/index.html) was designed to fulfill the need of storing large amounts of data in localStorage, specifically on mobile devices. It started out from an LZW implementation (a universal lossless data compression algorithm). Try to use `LZString.compressToUTF16()` and `LZString.decompressFromUTF16()` to store compressed data into localStorage.
145. [BlurHash](https://blurha.sh) or [ThumbHash](https://github.com/evanw/thumbhash) is a compact representation of a placeholder for an image. The algorithm encodes your image into a short string (only 20-30 characters), ready to save in a database. When you send data to your client, you send both the URL to the image, and the BlurHash string. Your client then takes the string, and decodes it into a image that is rendered on to a canvas.
146. A labeled statement is any statement that is prefixed with an identifier. You can use a label to identify a statement, and later refer to it using a `break` or `continue` statement. For example, we have a `loop1: for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {}` with a labeled `break`. When `break loop1` is encountered, the execution of the `loop1` is terminated.
147. The "Idle" state in Performance tab of Chrome DevTools is the time when nothing has happened (so I'm not sure why you would want to reduce it). Go to `about:blank` page, and get a new CPU profile. The result is probably the value for idle close to 100%. The "Idle" state should not be confused with the "Loading" state.
148. Word Error Rate (WER) is the most common metric used today to evaluate the effectiveness of an automatic speech recognition system (ASR). WER can be defined using the formula: `WER = (# of words inserted + # of words deleted + # of words substituted) / total # of words.` But when a speech recognition API fails to recognize words important to your analysis, it is not good enough-no matter what the WER is.
149. Voice activity detector (VAD) is the detection of the presence or absence of human speech, used in speech processing. [vad-web](https://github.com/ricky0123/vad) provides an accurate, user-friendly VAD that runs in the browser. You can start recording audio and send segments of audio with speech to your server. Under the hood, it runs pre-trained VAD algorithm using ONNX Runtime Web (cross-platform machine-learning model accelerator).
150. In function calls, all calculations occur using the ALU, which means that variables from memory need to be loaded into registers. As a caller, when invoking a function, you must save the current state (since the callee might overwrite certain registers) by storing register values in memory. There exists a convention between callers and callees, for example, callers save and restore registers 1-8, while callees handle registers 9-16. Understanding where parameters reside (in specific registers or the Activity Record) and where return values are stored is crucial. Each function has its own Activity Record (AR) in memory, containing information like arguments, parent addresses, caller-save registers, and local variables. Store and load operations facilitate data movement between registers and RAM.
151. A [bloom filter](https://samwho.dev/bloom-filters/) is a probabilistic data structure that is based on hashing. It is extremely space efficient. When testing if an element is in the bloom filter, false positives are possible. It will either say that an element is definitely not in the set or that it is possible the element is in the set.
152. You can troubleshoot problems with Chrome browser, such as hanging tabs and error messages. Use debug logs to help you. These logs aren't generated automatically. You need to turn on logging first. To enable logging, launch Chrome with these command line flags: `/Applications/Google\ Chrome.app/Contents/MacOS/Google\ Chrome --enable-logging --v=1`. Debug logs are stored in the user data directory as `chrome_debug.log` and this file is overwritten every time Chrome restarts. The location of the log file is `~/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome` for Mac OS.
153. Back in 2017, Chrome 59 introduced the so-called Headless mode, which lets you run the browser without any visible UI. Headless mode is a popular choice for browser automation (UI testing, taking screenshots, creating a PDF) through projects like Puppeteer *(A Node library developed by the Chrome team, which provides a high-level API to control headless/full Chrome)*. Technically, it's important to know that the old Headless was a separate, alternate browser implementation that happened to be shipped as part of the same Chrome binary. It doesn't share any of the Chrome browser code. In Chrome 112, the new Headless mode (passing `--headless=new` flag) is available that unifies Headless and headful modes.
154. What does `2>&1` mean? The `N>` syntax in Bash means to redirect a file descriptor to somewhere else. 2 is the file descriptor of `stderr`; 1 means `stdout`. So `2>&1` will redirect `stderr` to `stdout`. (`&` is only interpreted to mean "file descriptor" in the context of redirections.)
155. [Undici](https://undici.nodejs.org/), a modern HTTP client library for Node.js, served as the foundation for Node.js’ native `fetch()` implementation. Undici is a replacement for `http.request`
because we could not improve `http.request` without breaking everybody. (Node.js core HTTP stack suffers from fundamental design issues that are impossible to overcome without breaking the API.)
156. [Jina AI Reader](https://github.com/jina-ai/reader) converts any URL into Markdown content suitable for piping into an LLM, by simply adding `r.jina.ai` to the front of a URL to get back Markdown of that page. It's written in TypeScript and uses Puppeteer to run Readabiliy.js *(extract content from web pages)* and Turndown *(HTML to Markdown converter)* against the scraped page. Another one, by adding `s.jina.ai` to your query, it will call the search engine and returns top-5 results with their URLs and contents, each in clean, LLM-friendly text.
157. An overview of how buffering and flow control manage backpressure in Node streams: When a producer (like a readable stream) generates data, it fills the internal buffer up to the limit set by `highWaterMark`. If the internal buffer reaches the `highWaterMark`, the stream will temporarily stop reading from the source or accepting more data until some buffers are consumed. The consumer (like a writable stream) processes data from the buffer. As the buffer level decreases and goes below the `highWaterMark`, the stream resumes reading or accepting data.